monitoring/README.md, before:

# Automated Monitoring

This directory contains the logic to monitor the CMP banner in different jurisdictions and environments. This can be executed on a local machine using the commands below.

## Useful commands

-   make sure you've run `yarn install` in the parent directory!
-   you require `frontendDeveloper` janus access
-   `yarn install` to install dependencies
-   `yarn run test:dev` to run the Jest unit tests in watch mode
-   `yarn run lint` to lint the code using ESLint
-   `yarn start` to run lambda handler logic locally. This is an interactive CLI which permits the user to select the Jurisdiction and Environment/Stage.
-   `AWS_PROFILE=frontend yarn run remote` to execute lambda functions in all regions. This is an interactive CLI which permits the user to select the Environment/Stage and AWS Region.

### Local Run Command

```sh
  yarn start --env={ENVIRONMENT} --jurisdiction={JURISDICTION}
```

where ENVIRONMENT = code or prod
and JURISDICTION = aus, ccpa or tcfv2

e.g.

```sh
    yarn start --env=code --jurisdiction=ccpa
```

This CLI tool falls back to an interactive tool if any of the parameters passed are incorrect or if the user runs

```sh
    yarn start
```

Commit message:

feat: Create config for local testing (#641)
* Update config.ts

* Update types.ts

* Moved class and test to new folder

* Create jurisdiction-config-manager.ts

Creating a manager can easily be extended

* Creating ConfigManager that can be extended

Creating

* Created a config builder for different environments and jurisdictions

* Update types.ts

Added enums and types to type file

* Create validator.ts

Created a validator class to check if string was part of enums

* Update config.ts

Refactored to use Enums
Using new Config Builder instead of list of Configs

* Moved types and enums to types

* Updated imports

* Corrected spelling

* Update config.test.ts

Fixed test

* Added new tests

* Create config-builder.test.ts

* Update localRun.ts

* Update config-builder.ts

* Update config-builder.ts

* Update env.ts

Added baseurl environmental file to update the local dcr endpoint

* Using local base url environmental variable

* Update README.md

* Added comment

* Added local to avaliable list

* Update README.md

* Updating to use frontend and updated iframeurl

* Update config-builder.ts

monitoring/README.md, after:

# Automated Monitoring

This directory contains the logic to monitor the CMP banner in different jurisdictions and environments. This can be executed on a local machine using the commands below.

## Useful commands

-   make sure you've run `yarn install` in the parent directory!
-   you require `frontendDeveloper` janus access
-   `yarn install` to install dependencies
-   `yarn run test:dev` to run the Jest unit tests in watch mode
-   `yarn run lint` to lint the code using ESLint
-   `yarn start` to run lambda handler logic locally. This is an interactive CLI which permits the user to select the Jurisdiction and Environment/Stage.
-   `AWS_PROFILE=frontend yarn run remote` to execute lambda functions in all regions. This is an interactive CLI which permits the user to select the Environment/Stage and AWS Region.

### Local Run Command

```sh
  yarn start --env={ENVIRONMENT} --jurisdiction={JURISDICTION}
```

where ENVIRONMENT = local, code or prod
and JURISDICTION = aus, ccpa or tcfv2

e.g.

```sh
    yarn start --env=code --jurisdiction=ccpa
```

This CLI tool falls back to an interactive tool if any of the parameters passed are incorrect or if the user runs

```sh
    yarn start
```

To run 'local' environment, frontend and dotcom-rendering must be setup and running on your local machine. The defined url for a local instance of frontend is http://localhost:9000. If you'd like to change this base url, update the localBaseURL variable in src/env.ts.
